routing matching mortises and Tenon's is
quick and easy with the FMT first mark
one side of each part now mark a cross
at the center of the tenon on only one
workpiece
on the jig tabletop pull the table sight
forward to its stop
place the tenant piece against the side
stop with the marked side toward the
clap plate and slide it up to touch the
site
use the adjustable cam action speed
clamps to lock it in place
unlocking the table clamp allows the
table to move freely in any direction
the table is positioned so that the
sight centers over the cross on the
workpiece the table clamp is reset and
the sight is retracted a guide is
selected that suits the stock size
these patented lead template guides are
the heart of the FMT system
they're designed to guide the router
during the creation of both the tenon
and it's perfectly matching mortis
once the guide has been chosen and
snapped into place the matching diameter
bid is installed in the router
the to guide pins on the bottom of the
sub-base guide the router
the right hand guide pin slides in the
right slide track
the left hand pin circles the guide
creating the shape of the tenon
this animation shows how the guides and
guide pins precisely steer the tenon bit
the bit is adjusted to the depth of cut
required for the tenon and the router
depth stop is set
Tenon's are first routed clockwise with
a very light climb cut this creates a
very clean edged shoulder then for the
finish cut routed counterclockwise with
the pin running on the guide
the site is moved forward the workpiece
turned over and slid up to touch the
site
if you forget to retract the site when
cutting Tenon's the router sub-base
automatically pushes it back into place
all other similar tenants can now be
routed without having to mark or cite
the tenants or remove the router from
the jig all fmt Tenon's will be
identical in size regardless of any
variations in stock size to create the
matching mortises the center positions
of only one mortise workpiece are marked
the site is extended out to its top the
mortis piece has moved over until the
cross is centered under the site then
it's clamped in place and the site
retracted
if you forget to retract the site the
site knob will remind you by making it
impossible to set the sub base in the
guides
the router is placed back on the jig the
right hand guide pin is again in the
right side track but this time the left
hand pin is in the mortise slot of the
guide
this patented li system accurately
guides the tenon bit
to cut the mortise a series of
overlapping holes is plunged
then routed side-to-side to clean it out
the Li frame mortise and tenon jig is
infinitely adjustable for a perfect fit
the guide pin on the sub-base can be
raised or lowered to compensate for
manufacturing tolerances in bit
diameters and router run-out
raising the tapered guide pin produces a
wider mortise and a smaller tenon for a
looser fit lowering the pin produces a
narrower mortise and a wider tenon for a
tighter fit
the FMT is amazingly accurate 1/8 of a
turn on the guide knob equals a
thousandth of an inch on the glue line
the knob is graduated in eighths this
allows for recording of settings for
future use
again you can route more matching
mortises without marking them or
removing the router from the jig the lis
frame mortise and tenon jig comes
equipped with two outrigger bars this
allows you to attach two shop-made beams
to the jig to cut spaced mortises in one
workpiece
by placing reference marks on the
Outrigger beam
or installing stop blocks you can route
similar mortises without having to mark
or sight all the mortise positions or
remove the router from a jig